IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS

JOHN DOE and JENNIFER DOE,	)
						)
			Plaintiffs,		)
						)
v.						)	Case No. 3:24-cv-908-MAB
						)
BRADLEY & SONS, INC., THE BRENNAN 	)
CORPORATION, BRENNAN TRANSPORT, 	)
INC., BOULDER SALES & PRODUCTS, 	)
INC.						)
				                        )
			Defendants.		) 	

PLAINTIFFS’ CONFIDENTIAL MEDIATION MEMORANDUM

I.	INTRODUCTION
On the early morning of April 1, 2022, John Doe was performing his duties as a commercial truck driver when, while lawfully driving within the lane and within the speed limit, his tire caught an unmarked open patch which protruded over the center dashline into the lane of travel. (Ex. 1, Plaintiffs’ Complaint at Law).  This manmade patch was created and controlled by Defendants Bradley & Sons, Inc.; The Brennan Corporation; Brennan Transport, Inc.; and Boulder Sales & Products, Inc.    
Evidence will show, through video evidence from Plaintiff Doe’s dash camera, the testimony of an eyewitness who watched Plaintiff Doe’s driving for approximately 20 miles leading up to the crash, the conflicting testimony between the Defendants regarding their traffic control policies, and the testimony of the employee who was tasked with traffic control, that the Defendants were negligent at minimum. Defendants acted with a conscious disregard for the safety of drivers passing through the construction zone. (Ex. 2, Drum Dep. 69).
Mr. Doe’s damages are catastrophic and permanent.  Plaintiff will not work again and will need in excess of $5,000,000.00 in future medical care related to his traumatic brain injury and other injuries. Mr. Doe has undergone, and will continue to undergo, extensive treatment for a variety of injuries. Treatment resulting from this incident includes cervical and lumbar radiculopathy, traumatic brain injury, post-concussion syndrome, and post-traumatic stress disorder. His care included over 90 chiropractic sessions, multiple epidural steroid injections, inpatient hospitalization, and ultimately spinal decompression surgery. In addition to chronic physical pain, Mr. Doe suffers from cognitive decline, insomnia, and persistent psychological trauma. Specialists across neurology, orthopedics, psychiatry, and physical therapy have confirmed that his impairments are permanent and significantly restrict his ability to perform basic daily functions. Mr. Doe will not work for the rest of his career. 
Plaintiff, Doe and his wife, Mrs. Doe will request in excess of $15,000,000.00 at trial – let alone co-Plaintiff’s trial ask.  We will itemize this below.  The Brennan Defendants have disclosed that they maintain an underlying insurance policy with applicable limits of $2,000,000.00 per occurrence and an excess policy with applicable limits of $10,000,000.00 ($12,000,000.00 total) covering the Subject Incident and all claims brought because of it.  Additionally, Defendant Bradley & Sons, Inc. has disclosed an underlying insurance policy with applicable limits of $1,000,000.00 per occurrence and an excess policy with applicable limits of $10,000,000.00 ($11,000,000.00 total) covering the Subject Incident and all claims brought because of it. 


II.	PARTIES
Plaintiff, John Doe 
On April 1, 2022, John Doe was driving a commercial truck West Bound on Interstate 70 in Bond County at approximately 1:00am, when he approached a construction zone near Mile Marker 38. After slowing down and moving into the left lane, as the right lane was closed for construction, and entering the construction zone, Mr. Doe’s commercial truck was suddenly ripped off of the road, flipped over, and crashed into the tree line. Upon review, it was determined that the accident was caused by an unmarked portion of an open patch which protruded across the center dashline and into the lane of travel. As a result of this crash, Mr. Doe sustained life altering injuries to his neck and back. Imaging confirmed multiple cervical and lumbar disc protrusions, along with spinal stenosis and nerve impingement. Mr. Doe also exhibited signs of traumatic brain injury, including memory loss, impaired focus, and emotion dysregulation. As a result of these injuries, he has undergone a variety of treatment, including, but not limited to physical therapy, injections, chiropractic treatment, electrical shock therapy, and prescription pain medication.
At the time of the collision, Mr. Doe worked as a licensed commercial truck driver. (Ex. 3, John Doe Dep. 9). He had been driving commercially for three years since receiving his commercial driver’s license in 2019 (Ex. 3, John Doe Dep. 11). Since the date of the crash, Mr. Doe has been unable to work as a commercial truck driver. (Ex. 3, John Doe Dep. 46). Mr. Doe continues to be treated for neck and back pain. He will continue to require physical therapy, pain medication, and injections.
Plaintiff, Jennifer Doe
Jennifer Doe, age 53, is the wife of Plaintiff John Doe. Until the date of the incident, Mrs. Doe relied on Mr. Doe for income. (Ex. 4, Doe Dep. 7). Due to Mr. Doe’s inability to work, Ms. Doe has suffered a substantial loss in income in the household. Further, Mr. Doe has not been able to contribute to the household in other non-income related ways, including cooking, cleaning, and a general decrease in his ability to provide love and care for his family. (Ex. 5, Yixuan Doe Dep. 19). This has caused further stress on Mr. Doe and Ms. Doe’s children, as they also relied on Mr. Doe for financial support and assistance, and now have to work while attending school to ensure that they can afford the cost of living.
Defendant, Bradley & Sons, Inc
On April 1, 2022, Bradley & Sons, Inc., a road construction and highway rehabilitation company, was overseeing the aforementioned construction zone as a sub-contractor. Bradley had been responsible for maintaining control of the worksite portion of the interstate during the project. Until the date of the incident, Bradley & Sons had been in charge of the digging, and the hole which would eventually be the cause for Mr. Doe’s injury was dug by Bradley. (Ex. 6, Green Dep. 26). At all relevant times, Bradley had a duty to take any necessary actions to prevent any person or persons such as Plaintiffs, from being harmed by all manmade excavations, trenches, or cutouts near the worksite. Additionally, Bradley had a duty to ensure that traffic could flow through the worksite in a safe and practical manner or close the road to traffic entirely. It was Bradley's responsibility to affirmatively place the drums to so as to protect drivers, like John Doe, in the open lane of traffic. (Ex. 6, Green Dep. 42). 
Bradley staffed multiple employees on this project both on-site and in a managerial capacity. Aaron Neuf was the Superintendent for this particular project and was aware of Bradley’s policies and procedures. (Ex. 7, Neuf Dep. 102). Kevin Roeche was the General Superintendent, and he was also aware of Bradley’s policies and procedures, and additionally had knowledge of why the cut out may have protruded into the left lane of traffic. (Ex. 8, Roeche Dep. 10,98) Tanner Thebeau, the president of Bradley & Sons at the time of the incident, further acknowledged the dangers of the cut-out protruding into the left lane. (Ex. 9, Tanner Thebeau Dep. 30). Additionally, Michael Lant was responsible for inspecting the site every in the evenings, and ensuring that safety barrels had been properly placed to indicate the existence of construction. (Ex. 10, Lant Dep).  The safety of the worksite had been under the purview of Zachary Maggio. In fact, Maggio even created the safety manual. (Ex. 7, Neuf Dep. 14).  It would also be the duty of employees such as Neuf to report safety hazards to Maggio. Id. at 16. In his role at Bradley, Maggio’s duties also included training employees on emergency action plans and maintaining inspections of the site. (Ex. 11, Maggio Dep. 29).
The cut out in the roadway was not adequately marked so as to warn vehicles on the roadway of its protrusion into traffic, and a severe accident occurred as a result. The Bradley defendants are seemingly unwilling, even after reviewing accident footage, to at the very least acknowledge that barrel placement may be inadequate, and when asked to place themselves in the shoes of Plaintiff, brush off the question as mere hypotheticals. (Ex. 11, Maggio Dep, Pg 48) On other occasions, they maintain that there is nothing negligent regarding their placement. .Id at 51. 
The footage is clear, the cutout in the road protrudes into the traffic lane, and yet, even when reviewing the footage, some of Bradley Defendants deny the existence of such. It is this cut out in the road that, coupled with Bradley’s negligent handling of the construction site resulted in Plaintiff injuries. 
There remain multiple inconsistencies in Bradley Defendant statements, each varies either asserting that the safety barrels were in the right place, or that “wind” caused them to shift over, or that there was no safety issue in the first place. 
“Everyone at Bradley & Son’s, Inc., must be involved and committed to safety. This must be a team effort. Together we can prevent accidents and injuries.”
(Ex. 7, Neuf Dep. 18).
Bradley & Son., Inc., prides themselves on safety, the team seemingly holds each other accountable, but on April 1, 2022, their failure to act, their failure to embody their safety “mantra,” directly led to John Doe’s injuries. 
Defendant, Brennan Corporation, Inc.
On April 1, 2022, The Brennan Corporation, Brennan Transport, Inc., and Boulder Sales & Products, Inc. collectively (“Brennan”), a road construction and rehabilitation company, was overseeing a project at Milepost 37.6 on Interstate 70 in Bond County, Illinois as the general contractor. Brennan and Bradley & Sons have partnered together on numerous jobs in the past. (Ex. 6., Green Dep. 15). Brennan maintained strong oversight into the I-70 construction site and shared a similar duty to that of Defendant Bradley. Brennan oversaw the operations and safety of the site and had the duty to ensure that all Defendants kept a safe construction site. 
Joe Green, Brennan’s Superintendent for the work site at issue, stated that he is unaware of who oversees regulation of safety and rules. (Ex. 6., Green Dep. 13-14). Brennan had not been the crew digging the holes on the date of incident, however after they had examined the footage of the site, they admit that it appears that the hole was encroaching into the traffic lane. Specifically, Joe Green, the Superintendent on the job, was shown crash scene photos, and he would testify that the open patch is encroaching into the center line. (Ex. 6., Green Dep. 26). While Bradley placed the drums into the roadway, Brennan’s Joe Green had the authority to move the drums to ensure the safety of drivers in the open lane. Id. at 43.
Depositions were conducted on individuals who held high-level positions within the Brennan Corporation at the time of incident, but many claim to have limited knowledge of the events that transpired on April 1, 2022. Ranging from then President/Owner, James “Jim” Brennan, to Joe Green, the General Foreman, both were seemingly eager to suggest that additionally un-deposed parties may have factual knowledge of the events, and it appears rather surprising that key executives would have such limited knowledge of the accident that took place on their worksite. Despite attempting to pass blame on to Bradley for traffic control, Brennan also retains responsibility for the safety and workmanship on the worksite, as they are the prime contractor for the site.
DEMAND
The total applicable insurance coverage between these two Defendants that is potentially available to resolve all claims arising out of the Subject Incident is $23,000,000.00. (Ex. 12A-12B, Certificates of Liability Insurance). 
III.	FACTS/LIABILITY
A.	Description of the Crash
In the early morning of April 1, 2022, John Doe was operating a commercial semi-tractor trailer westbound on I-70 in Bond County near the 38-mile mark (Ex. 13, IDOT Highway Incident Report). According to an eyewitness, Michael Drum Sr., who observed Mr. Doe’s driving for about 20 miles and observed the accident, it was a dark morning, around 1:00am, and the area where the incident occurred was not lit. (Ex. 2, Drum Dep. 69, 85). Around the area of the 38-mile mark, there was a construction zone containing several open patches. After lowering his speed, and staying within his own lane, Mr. Doe’s right tire caught the edge of one of these open patches, which protruded into the left lane, which was the active lane of travel. The 90-degree drop-off in the open patch, which was about 8 to 10 inches over the center divider and 18 to 20 inches deep, caused Mr. Doe’s truck to be ripped off the highway and into the tree line at an approximately 45-degree angle. (Ex. 2, Drum Dep. 14, 24-26). As seen below, the barrel closest to the lane of travel left a substantial amount of this open patch unmarked. 
 
Image 1: Screenshot of Plaintiff Doe’s Dashcam showing open Patch Protruding into left lane.


 
Image 2: Alternative Angle of Open Patch Protruding into left lane.

 
Image 3: View of patch from far side
	In addition to observing Mr. Doe’s driving and the crash, Mr. Drum also observed the scene immediately following the accident.
As I got up to the point where Mr. Doe had wrecked, because I wanted to go -- I knew not to pull over before him.  So I got past him about 500 feet, because I noticed all the barriers were to the right of the center divider, the lane divider.  All of the barriers were to the right, about maybe eight to 10 inches. There was a 20-inch-plus hole where they cut the concrete out eight to 10 inches over the center divider, exposing drivers to drive right into it with their right-side steer tire. I mean, that blew me away.  I thought, Okay, that's not right. So when I got my truck stopped, went to check on them, got them -- their front windshield was blown out, truck was on its side, they were -- they were both -- it seemed -- appeared like, you know, they were both out of it.  They spoke no English.  I was surprised to find them alive after what I just witnessed. Mr. Doe, I noticed -- I think he was – he was looking in my direction.  He wasn't looking at me.  He definitely was out of it.
(Ex. 2, Drum Dep. 16) (Emphasis Added). Brent Winters, an Illinois Department of Transportation (“IDOT”) Engineer III, provided further statements as to the appropriateness of the barrel placement per IDOT specifications. Mr. Winters confirmed that the barrel placement was not proper according to IDOT standards. (Ex. 14, Winters Dep. 38-39).
After pulling over, Mr. Drum began attempting to assist Mr. Doe and Mr. Doe’s co-driver, Xioayan Fang. “He was moving really slow.  He was not alert . . . Mr. Doe was just kind of – he was just – it was like he just, like, got knocked out, like he just was waking up. He was looking in my direction but not looking at me.” (Ex. 2, Drum Dep. 22-23).
 
Image 4: Image of Truck Overturned

“He was -- his body, his -- you know, the vehicle's on its side, so he's still strapped in.  He was like entangled in his seat belt. So he is lunged forward to the right.  Where your radio would be, he was up into that. And I don't remember -- I mean, I may have removed his seat belt.  I don't -- that's -- I'm trying to think and give you the correct answer there, but his seat belt was around him. When we went to get him out of the vehicle, you know, he had to move it around, and it was -- he definitely was wearing his seat belt, though.” (Ex. 2, Drum Dep. 86). “He was -- when I got to him, he was just coming to.  He wasn't -- I don't think he was coherent enough to undo his own seat belt.” (Ex. 2, Drum Dep. 87). “He was covered in debris.” Id. “I -- he was covered -- he had liquid on him.  Did I know exactly what it was?  No, I don't.  I don't know.  But he was -- he had -- he had debris on his body, yes.” Id.
While Mr. Drum was attempting to help Mr. Doe and Mr. Doe’s co-driver, another vehicle hit an unmarked patch in the same construction zone. “Within not even five minutes – less than that, probably, after the ambulance left -- a second truck coming through that zone hit another hole and went through it . . .” (Ex. 2, Drum Dep. 19). A separate report was made with respect to the second crash. (Ex. 16, Second Crash Report). Immediately following this, Mr. Drum stated that a State Trooper had to secure the scene of both crashes:
Well, at that point, he realized what's going on and what I was telling him, and he jumped in his patrol car and started driving down the entire construction zone, stopping and moving all the barriers over to push traffic so they could pass that construction zone safely at that point. And he drove the whole time. I stayed behind him and watched him do it.
(Ex. 2, Drum Dep. 20).
Despite the significance of the crash, Mr. Doe remained concerned about his obligations to his employer. “I was so worried what I could report to my boss, because the truck was damaged, I was more concerned about that my own well being, therefore, I didn’t want to go with the ambulance.” ((Ex. 15, Earning Capacity Evaluation, P. 28). 
B.	Immediate Impact of Crash on John Doe
Once Mr. Doe returned home following the crash, his family immediately noticed a stark difference in Mr. Doe’s physical and psychological well-being. “From the moment he just came back right after the accident, I could see in his eyes that something major had happened.  He seemed very negative, distressed, and in pain.” (Ex. 17, Yichen Doe Dep. 13). “After that he was very exhausted and went to sleep for a long time.  When he woke up, he still looked like he was in pain.  He remained in a state of shock, and I knew that this incident must have been replaying in his mind and over. My family wanted to comfort him, but he became less talkative.  He just didn't want to remember this painful experience.” (Ex. 17, Yichen Doe Dep. 13-14).
After about two or three days of being at home, and dealing with his family worrying about him, Mr. Doe told his family that “his head felt swollen and a bit dizzy, and his back was especially uncomfortable.  It felt like there was something inside, like something was pressing, making it     very awkward.  And then the pain was intense also on his arm.  I could see a large bruise and scrape.”  (Ex. 5, Yixuan Doe Dep. 24). Mr. Doe then went to see Dr. Ling Lee due to neck and back pain. (Ex. 4, Doe Dep. 14). Mrs. Doe further observed large bruises and swelling on Mr. Doe’s head and stated that he was complaining of a headache. (Ex. 4, Doe Dep. 14, 16). Unfortunately, due to the severity of John’s injuries, this appointment did little to help him. His daughter noted that “even after the visit he still appeared to be in pain.” (Ex. 5, Yixuan Doe Dep. 14).
C.	Defendants’ Duties at the Work Site.
Defendant Brennan Construction was the primary contractor in Illinois Department of Transportation Contract #76P87, which is the contract relating to the specific construction zone where the crash occurred. (Ex. 18, Notice to Bidders, Specifications and Proposal). The Prime Contract outlines the following “Traffic Control Plan,”
Traffic control shall be in accordance with the applicable sections of the “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction”, the applicable guidelines contained in the “National Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways”, Illinois Supplement to the National Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices, these Special Provisions, and any special details and Highway Standards contained herein and in the plans.

Special attention is called to Articles 107.09 and 107.14 of the “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction” and the following Highway Standards relating to traffic control:

701101	701400	701401	701406	701411	701428
701901
(Ex. 18, Notice to Bidders, Specifications and Proposal, P.9).  Pursuant to the Proposed Highway Plans for IDOT Contract # 76P87, the Traffic Control Setup was to be controlled by standard 701428-01, while the Traffic Control Devices were to be controlled by standard 701901-08. (Ex. 19, Proposed Highway Plans).
	Standard 701428-01 states that “Drums are used to channelize traffic and to delineate unattended obstacles, patches, excavations, drop-offs, and other hazards.”  Standard 701411 specifies that “channelizing devices shall clearly define a path for motorists entering or exiting the highway.” 
Through its contract with IDOT, Brennan obligated itself to appropriately delineate, and channelize traffic away from, the open patch that protruded into the left lane. After obtaining the contract with IDOT, Brennan executed a Subcontract with Bradley & Sons, Inc. (Ex. 20, Subcontract). Among the work that Bradley & Sons, Inc. was obligated to perform in the Subcontract was “Traffic Control.” (Ex. 20, Subcontract P. 13). Pursuant to the Subcontract, “All work included in the Subcontract shall be done under the direction of Contractor and to the satisfaction of Contractor, and Owner.” (Ex. 20, Subcontract P. 2) (Emphasis added).
Despite their obligations, the images, video, and testimony provided show that both the Brennan Defendants and Bradley & Sons, Inc. failed to meet their contractual obligations to clearly define a path around the patch, or to delineate the portion of the patch that was in the roadway. Through their testimony, representatives of both Bradley and Brennan seemed to struggle to identify whether the barrel was appropriately placed or, if inappropriately located, what the cause of the inappropriate location may have been.
After the patches were opened, the defendants had the following surveillance obligation when construction operations were concluded for the day:
When open holes, broken pavement, trenches over 3 in. (75 mm) deep and 4 in. (100 mm) wide, or other hazards are present within 8 ft (2.4 m) of the edge of an open lane, the Contractor shall furnish traffic control surveillance during all hours when the Contractor is not engaged in construction operations.  The surveillance person(s) shall be provided with adequate transportation and communications to ensure deficiencies can be corrected.  The surveillance person(s) shall drive over and inspect the work, maintain the temporary traffic control devices, and assist and direct traffic, at such intervals as may be required, not to exceed four hours.  The person responsible for surveillance shall complete an inspection form, furnished by the Engineer, on a daily basis.  The completed form shall be given to the Engineer on the first working day after the inspection.
Illinois Standard Specifications, Art. 701.10. Accordingly, the Defendants not only had to ensure that traffic control was appropriately placed, but also had a duty to maintain the temporary traffic control devices at least every four hours. 
i.	Bradley & Sons, Inc.
Representatives for Bradley & Sons, Inc. provided conflicting statements regarding whether the barrel was appropriately placed when viewing the video of the crash. Zachary Maggio, Safety Director for Bradley & Sons, Inc., believed that the barrel, as seen in Image 1, was appropriately placed. (Ex. 11, Maggio Dep. 52). Aaron Neuf, Superintendent for Bradley & Sons, Inc., believed that the barrel was inappropriately located. (Ex. 7, Neuf Dep. 107). Kevin Roeche, General Superintendent for Bradley & Sons, Inc., believed that the barrel was inappropriately placed. (Ex. 8, Roeche Dep. 28-60). Tanner Thebeau, a former Project Manager and the current President of Bradley & Sons, Inc., stated that he does not believe the barrel would need to be corrected. (Ex. 9, Thebeau Dep. 31). Lastly, Michael Lant, the Laborer for Bradley & Sons, Inc. who was specifically tasked with reviewing the placement of all traffic control devices at night in order to comply with the aforementioned Article 701.10 requirements, believed that the barrel was appropriately placed. (Ex. 10, Lant Dep. 60-61). Most importantly, Mr. Lant believed that the barrel location at the time of the crash, as depicted by Mr. Doe’s dash camera, was consistent with the placement of the barrel during Mr. Lant’s last patrol of the worksite before the crash. Id.
ii.	Brennan Defendants
Similar to Bradley, Brennan’s agents also had difficulty determining whether the barrel was appropriately located. Steve Williams, the Operations Manager for The Brennan Corporation at the time of the incident, was of the impression after viewing the video of the incident that the barrels were appropriately placed. (Ex. 21, Williams Dep. 48). Mr. Williams further stated that Joe Green, the General Foreman for The Brennan Corporation at the time of the incident, would also be considered the “Superintendent” for the project at the time of the incident. (Ex. 21, Williams Dep. 41). Pursuant to The Brennan Corporation’s “Safety Health, and Loss Control Plan,” “The Superintendent shall be responsible for orderly traffic control on the job site and on any public roads affected by the work.”  (Ex. 22, Brennan Corp. Safety Plan, 16). Mr. Green further affirmed that he had the authority to move barrels into the appropriate positions if he noticed them out of place. (Ex. 6., Green Dep. 43). Mr. Green further stated that he would have positioned the barrels differently, towards the outermost edge of the open patch. (Ex. 6., Green Dep. 47). 
iii.	Other Witnesses
Each of the responding officers who were on the scene provided testimony that there was sufficient space where the open patch had extended into the lane of travel for a tire of a vehicle that is lawfully within the lane of travel to catch on the open patch. Responding Officer Charis Hobbs stated that, had she seen the barrels placed where they were at the time of the incident, she would have called IDOT to have the contractor position them appropriately on the leading edge of the open patch. (Ex. 23, Hobbs Dep. 12-13). She further stated that she believed a driver could be lawfully driving in the open lane of travel and get caught in the open patch. Id. Responding Officer Jacob Dorris further also shared the belief that the space to the left of the barrel and center line was sufficient for a truck tire to get caught in. (Ex. 24, Dorris Dep. 40). Responding Officer Scott Becker also agreed that there was sufficient space within the lane of travel, unmarked by a barrier, for a tire to catch the open patch.
Brent Winters, an Illinois Department of Transportation (“IDOT”) Engineer III, provided further statements as to the appropriateness of the barrel placement per IDOT specifications. Mr. Winters confirmed that the barrel placement was not proper according to IDOT standards. (Ex. 14, Winters Dep. 38-39).
Michael Drum, the independent witness who observed the incident, along with the scene afterwards, made the following statement regarding the scene:
As I got up to the point where Mr. Doe had wrecked, because I wanted to go -- I knew not to pull over before him.  So I got past him about 500 feet, because I noticed all the barriers were to the right of the center divider, the lane divider.  All of the barriers were to the right, about maybe eight to 10 inches. There was a 20-inch-plus hole where they cut the concrete out eight to 10 inches over the center divider, exposing drivers to drive right into it with their right-side steer tire. I mean, that blew me away.  I thought, Okay, that's not right. So when I got my truck stopped, went to check on them, got them -- their front windshield was blown out, truck was on its side, they were -- they were both -- it seemed -- appeared like, you know, they were both out of it.  They spoke no English.  I was surprised to find them alive after what I just witnessed. Mr. Doe, I noticed -- I think he was – he was looking in my direction.  He wasn't looking at me.  He definitely was out of it.

(Ex. 2, Drum Dep. 16). 
Mr. Drum stayed on the scene as long as he could, up until the point that remaining on scene would be a danger to himself. (Ex. 2, Drum Dep. 22). He would even warn the ambulance “that someone else is going to come through here.” Id at 29. After law enforcement failed to control the scene, Drum had no choice but to get “the F[***] out of this place.” Id. at 30. After noticing the barrel placement, Drum would advise the responding officer that the barrels would need to fixed immediately or else another wreck would follow. Nearly 20 minutes later, another semi-truck, this time, travelling significantly slower than the speed limit, also hit the cut out in the road, causing his truck to lose a passenger side steer tire, along with a tandem tire. That truck also suffered significant damage to its undercarriage. Miraculously, the driver was unharmed; however, his truck would have to be towed as it was no longer operable. (Ex. 2, Drum Dep. 29) (Ex 16, Second Police Report, Pg 2). 
Seemingly, anybody who did not have a vested interest in claiming that the barrel was appropriately placed, or that the open patch did not present a hazard, was able to immediately conclude that the barrel was inappropriately placed and that the open patch presented a serious hazard. Inversely, those with a vested interest in the outcome of the case were the only ones who had difficulty with immediately making that conclusion. 
IV.	CAUSATION, INJURIES AND TREATMENT
As a result of this occurrence, Mr. Doe will require lifelong pain management, ongoing cognitive rehabilitation, and lumbar microdiscectomy surgery, and has undergone extensive treatment across multiple specialties for life-altering injuries stemming from the Subject Incident. Mr. Doe reports that his conditions remain symptomatic and cause ongoing disability. (Ex. 4, Doe Dep. 16).  
On April 1, 2022, Mr. Doe was a contract truck driver operating in the left lane of Interstate 70 when his vehicle struck an unmarked open patch in the road, flipping violently into the tree line. Following the collision, Mr. Doe experienced acute neck and back pain, dizziness, cognitive dysfunction, and psychological trauma. As. Mr. Drum testified, Mr. Doe suffered signs and symptoms of a traumatic brain injury.  His family observed those same signs and symptoms after he flew home.  As a result of the language barrier, Mr. Doe did not know how to find a neurologist to help him evaluate his brain injury so he went to his primary care physician.  On April 13, 2022, he sought evaluation at Chinatown Service Center where he was diagnosed with major depressive disorder, cervical contusion, and anxiety. He was prescribed medication for anxiety, depression, and pain, and encouraged to begin therapeutic exercise. 
 
Over the next year, Mr. Doe underwent 92 chiropractic sessions with Dr. Paul Chen, DC, to address spinal stenosis and multilevel disc protrusions in both his cervical and lumbar spine. He consistently reported pain radiating to his extremities, paresthesia, dizziness, visual disturbances, and impaired memory. Despite conservative care, his symptoms worsened, prompting referrals for diagnostic imaging and pain management. 
 
 
On June 26, 2022, Mr. Doe was hospitalized at Garfield Medical Center for intractable low back pain and suspected vertebral hemangioma. CT and MRI imaging confirmed disc bulges at L3-4, L4-5, and L5-S1, along with moderate foraminal narrowing. He was fitted for a lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO) brace and discharged for outpatient follow-up with neurosurgery and physical therapy.
 
	Mr. Doe’s traumatic brain injury symptoms continued to worsen.   July 6, 2022, Mr. Doe presented to Neurology Now Inc. with complaints of headaches, neck pain, back pain, left shoulder pain, and left wrist pain. Neurologist Dr. Benjamin Gross diagnosed Mr. Doe with post-traumatic cephalgia/concussion (G44.309, S06.0X), musculoskeletal injury to the left shoulder and left wrist (S49.92XA, S69.92XA), traumatic brain injury (S06.2X9D), left cervical radiculopathy (M54.12), lumbosacral radiculopathy (M54.16), agitated depression (F33.0), secondary insomnia (G47.00), dizziness and disequilibrium (R42 H81.93), post-traumatic stress disorder (F41.0), and memory and cognitive decline (G31.84). He was treated for memory and cognitive decline and began a pharmacological regimen that included Zolpidem, Fiorinal, and Tramadol. Dr. Gross recommended electroencephalogram, electromyography, and nerve conduction studies of bilateral upper extremities, and an MRI of the brain with diffusion tensor imaging to delineate additional consequences.
 
 
	Between November 2022 and March 2024, Mr. Doe underwent multiple epidural steroid injections (TESIs) in both cervical and lumbar regions under fluoroscopic guidance, including facet joint blocks at L4-5 and L5-S1. 
 
 
	Ultimately, on February 29, 2024, Mr. Doe underwent a left L4-5 and L5-S1 hemilaminectomy and decompression performed by Dr. Stephan Kasimian. The pre- and post-operative diagnoses were L4-5 and L5-S1 traumatic spondyloarthropathy (M46.96), left side with lateral recess and symptomatic radiculopathy (M54.16). The procedure was performed under general anesthesia and involved partial facetectomy and neural decompression to alleviate pressure on the affected nerve roots. 
 
Following his February 29, 2024 lumbar decompression surgery, Mr. Doe continued to experience moderate to severe neck pain accompanied by numbness radiating into his upper extremities. On April 8, 2024, he presented to HAAS Spine and Orthopedics reporting persistent cervical symptoms and intermittent low back discomfort. Examination revealed restricted and painful range of motion in both the cervical and lumbar spine, with tenderness over the paraspinal musculature. Imaging confirmed ongoing disc bulging and neural foraminal narrowing at multiple levels throughout the cervical and lumbar regions. Dr. Kasimian diagnosed Mr. Doe with multilevel cervical disc displacement, cervical radiculopathy, and post-operative lumbar radiculopathy. Despite the surgical intervention, Mr. Doe’s neurological deficits and pain symptoms remained significant, warranting continued rehabilitation and further evaluation.
 
Concurrent with his physical injuries, Mr. Doe developed persistent symptoms of PTSD, generalized anxiety, and depression. He underwent a full neuropsychological evaluation on August 31, 2024, with Dr. Johnny Wen, Ph.D., which confirmed significant deficits in processing speed, visual-spatial function, and executive functioning. Diagnostic impressions consisted of post-concussion syndrome (F07.81), post-traumatic stress disorder (F41.0), Generalized anxiety disorder (F41.1), and major depressive disorder, single episode, moderate to severe (F32.1). 
 

 
As of the date of this submission, Mr. Doe continues to treat with multiple specialists across orthopedics, neurology, physical therapy, and pain management. Despite undergoing lumbar decompression surgery and extensive care, he continues to experience persistent cervical and lumbar pain, paresthesia, cognitive impairment, and psychological distress. Neuropsychological testing has confirmed deficits in processing speed, executive functioning, and visual-spatial abilities. His injuries are permanent in nature and have permanently altered his ability to perform basic occupational and daily functions, and his recovery remains incomplete.  
V.	 MR. DOE’S LOSS OF NORMAL LIFE
Following the motor vehicle collision on April 1, 2022, Mr. Doe has experienced a range of medical issues. Additionally, Mr. Doe suffered  from lumbar radiculopathy, cervical disc protrusion, spinal stenosis, closed head injury, and traumatic spondyloarthropathy, among other severe medical conditions (Ex. 25, Medical Billing Summary ). According to Mrs. Doe, who saw firsthand the immense impact of the crash recalled: “The following day. Because after he came home his face looked terrible and he had headache. He had pain in the lower back. And when he walked, he could not walk straight. I’m sorry. When he walked, he could not walk with back straight up. So he looked in the terrible condition.” (Ex. 4, Doe Dep. 15).
In addition to the physical toll, the collision profoundly impacted Mr. Doe's emotional and psychological well-being. He experienced anxiety, fearful thoughts, sleep disturbances, and concentration issues. Dr. Gross diagnosed him with post-traumatic cephalgia/concussion, traumatic brain injury, post-traumatic stress disorder, and memory and cognitive decline. Dr. Gross recommended cognitive behavioral therapy and medication management to address his mental health struggles (Ex. 28, Medical Records and Bills). However, at times, there were clear signs of a mental injury that would be apparent without a diagnosis. “From the moment he just came back right after the accident, I could see in his eyes that something major had happened.  He seemed very negative, distressed, and in pain.” (Ex. 17, Yichen Doe Dep. 13). “After that he was very exhausted and went to sleep for a long time.  When he woke up, he still looked like he was in pain.  He remained in a state of shock, and I knew that this incident must have been replaying in his mind and over. My family wanted to comfort him, but he became less talkative.  He just didn't want to remember this painful experience.” (Ex. 17, Yichen Doe Dep. 13-14).
Furthermore, Mr. Doe's daily function and quality of life have been severely compromised. He continues to experience head, neck, and back pain, memory difficulties, and challenges returning to work. Dr. Wen diagnosed him with post-concussion syndrome, post-traumatic stress disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, and major depressive disorder. Dr. Wen recommended cognitive retraining, remediation, and ongoing medical and therapeutic interventions to address his cognitive and emotional issues (Ex. 25, Medical Summary).
The collision not only caused significant physical injuries but also triggered a cascade of emotional, psychological, and functional impairments for Mr. Doe. (Ex. 15, Earning Capacity Evaluation, P. 12). 
 The comprehensive medical documentation underscores the extensive harm he has suffered and the ongoing challenges he faces in his recovery. Mr. Doe has ongoing pain, causing him to continue taking pain medications. (Ex. 15, Earning Capacity Evaluation, P. 28). Mr. Doe’s continuing pain was summarized by an Earning Capacity Evaluation as follows:
When our office met with Ms. Doe on June 26, 2025, she reported the following difficulties for her husband related to activities of daily living: 
•	When Mr. Doe gets up in the morning, he moves very slowly; he needs support to get up and walk to the bathroom; he will use the wall for support and to stabilize; 
•	Sometimes they try to take a walk; sometimes he will lean forward, and it appears he trips and loses his balance; it seems like the brain is not sending the right “signal;” 
•	When he dresses himself for example, putting a shirt on, she witnesses him making a sound like he is in pain; moving his arms in a certain motion seems to cause pain; 
•	He can shower on his own but moves very slowly; she believes he needs to be very careful; 
•	Mr. Doe enjoyed cooking, and he previously did most of the cooking; at least two out of the three meals; she described him as a good cook; now, he is hot tempered and anxious. 
•	If he goes to the kitchen to cook, he becomes frustrated; he was taking a lot of breaks; he would need to find something to lean on or would need to sit and take breaks; he will still attempt to cook but it is rare, and he will frequently stop and have her take over; 
•	He attempts to assist with chores because he wants to be helpful and it is really difficult for him not to help, but he is not able to do much; she sees that he has the “will;” 
•	Mr. Doe would previously do all the handyman activities around the house; he can no longer do this; he no longer has the patience; 
•	Mr. Doe previously helped with cleaning. He did all the mopping and dusting. He was very helpful; he no longer cleans at all.
(Ex. 15, Earning Capacity Evaluation, P. 17-18).
Image 5: Photo of the Doe Family prior to the crash.

VI.	MR. DOE’S PAIN & SUFFERING 
Mr. Doe’s daily life is marked by persistent and intrusive physical pain. From the moment he wakes up to the moment he tries to sleep, his body reminds him of the trauma he endured. Basic tasks such as getting out of bed, dressing, or walking across a room have become physically taxing. He often braces himself against walls for stability and groans audibly when reaching, bending, or lifting his arms. What once were enjoyable routines, like cooking for his family or helping with light chores, now require multiple breaks or cannot be completed at all. (Ex. 15, Earning Capacity Evaluation, P. 17). 
The pain is not episodic; it is constant. Mr. Doe’s back, neck, and extremities pain with discomfort, while neuropathic symptoms like tingling and numbness interfere with his ability to focus or rest. The cervical and lumbar pain has not responded to conservative care and persists even after surgical intervention. His providers have confirmed that these symptoms are permanent, and that he will require ongoing injections, medications, and therapy to manage his condition for the remainder of his life. 
Most devastatingly, Mr. Doe understands this reality will not change. He knows he will never return to the life he built. He cannot work. He cannot lift his grandchildren. Standing up from a chair or getting out of bed is difficult for him, and his back no longer supports physical activity like it once did. Before the accident, Mr. Doe would run, do pushups, play basketball, and go hiking. Since the incident, those parts of his life have vanished. What remains are daily observations of a man who can no longer sit or stand for extended periods without discomfort, whose body is stiff, and whose movements are slow and labored. The permanence of this suffering, both in his body and in what it has taken from him compounds the pain itself. These are burdens he now carries each day, and they will remain with him indefinitely.  (Ex. 17, Yichen Doe Dep. P. 27).
VII.	MR. DOE’S EMOTIONAL DISTRESS
Mr. Doe’s emotional and psychological decline began the night of the crash and has only deepened in the years since. His family recalls a distinct shift in his personality upon his return home; he appeared withdrawn, defeated, and “not himself.” (Ex. 17, Yichen Doe Dep. P. 13). He became quiet, detached, and visibly distressed. While the physical pain was evident, the emotional scars soon became equally so. 
Mr. Doe is plagued by flashbacks of the crash and has lost all confidence and his once-steady demeanor has been replaced with irritability, frustration, and despair. He experiences insomnia and hypervigilance, often jolting awake or pacing during the night. Mr. Doe has developed a fear of driving and no longer feels safe behind the wheel, despite having made his living on the road for years. (Ex. 17, Yichen Doe Dep. 14-16). 
Neuropsychological testing confirmed that Mr. Doe suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, and major depressive disorder. His providers have documented persistent cognitive deficits, slowed processing speed, and emotional dysregulation. (Ex. 28, Medical Records and Bills). His family feels hopeless watching his continued decline. They describe the ripple effects of his condition as eroding the foundation of their home life. (Ex. 17, Yichen Doe Dep. Pg. 30). 
These emotional injuries are not invisible. Mr. Doe’s family has watched him deteriorate. He cries more easily. He avoids conversation. He no longer engages in lighthearted interactions or family traditions. While his injuries may not require a wheelchair or a cast, the weight of his psychological trauma has proven just as debilitating. Mr. Doe’s emotional wounds, like his physical ones, are permanent. 
VIII.	FUTURE MEDICAL BILLS RELATED TO THE COLLISION
Mr. Doe's ongoing symptoms require lifelong pain management. Medical evaluations and the persistence of pain despite conservative treatments indicate the need for future interventions, including repeat TFESI injections and possibly spinal surgery. The anticipated cost of these procedures, encompassing follow-up physical therapy, imaging, and medication, is expected to continue over his lifetime.  (Ex. 26, Kasimian Dep. 124-125).  
Counsel for Plaintiff retained a Physiatrist who is certified in life care planning and a Neurologist to evaluate Mr. Doe for his injuries and future care needs.  The Physiatrist expert has come up an opinion that Mr. Doe will incur in excess of $5,000,000.00 in future medical due to his injuries related to this crash . 
The recommended life care plan is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Ex. 27, Life Care Plan, 33-34). As a result of this continuing care, Dr. Bowman provided the following two Life Care Plan Options:
 
(Ex. 27, Life Care Plan, 35).
IX.	LOST EARNINGS
The short term and permanent injuries suffered by Mr. Doe as a result of the Defendants’ negligence has significantly impacted his ability to work and earn income, both in the interim from the crash until now, and fore the foreseeable future. The following quote from an Earning Capacity Evaluation summarizes these injuries and their effects on Mr. Doe’s ability to work:
On May 12, 2025, Mr. Doe underwent a follow-up neuropsychological evaluation with Johnny H. Wen, Ph.D., Clinical Neuropsychologist. Dr. Wen noted that Mr. Doe remained symptomatic and expressed distress over the lack of recovery. He continued to report poor short-term memory, impaired attention, and significant difficulty concentrating. In addition to these cognitive deficits, Mr. Doe continued to suffer from ongoing headaches with “very minimal, if any improvement.” Importantly, Dr. Wen observed that Mr. Doe has not shown any improvement in cognitive functioning since the prior evaluation, and in fact reported a perceived decline.

Dr. Wen recommended a multi-faceted treatment approach, including further neurological assessment, cognitive remediation with a clinical neuropsychologist and speech therapist, and continued psychotherapy to address the psychological and emotional effects of his life changes and prolonged unemployment. Additionally, Dr. Wen suggested that life care planning and case management services be considered to assist in coordinating long-term medical and rehabilitative needs. Critically, Dr. Wen concluded that Mr. Doe’s diagnosis had not changed since the initial evaluation and unequivocally stated that Mr. Doe had not returned to truck driving and that he did not foresee Mr. Doe being able to do so in the future.

(Ex. O, Earning Capacity Evaluation, 28). The day-to-day impact suffered by Mr. Doe has been noticed by his wife as well;
My husband had a car accident. And he was injured. So he had headache. He had a pain in the lower back, his neck. He was – he’s not – he has not been able to work. I had to work to support my family paying bills, like rental – like a rental cost and the expenses for my kids, all that.
(Ex. 4, Doe Dep. 7).
He worked for a couple times. Seeing that I as a women had to work hard to support the whole family. But our family financial situation really difficult. We got a rent bill we need to pay. And the whole family expenses. So he had to go on – or he had to go to drive the vehicles a couple times. But each time he came back, he had to rest for a long time to the unbearable pain.
(Ex. 4, Doe Dep. 24).
	As a result of these significant injuries, Vocational Expert Michele Albers summarized Mr. Doe’s lost earnings as follows:
 
(Ex. O, Earning Capacity Evaluation, 33).
X.	MRS. DOE’S LOSS OF CONSORTIUM CLAIM  
When creating the aforementioned “Life Care Plan,” Dr. Bowman spoke to Mrs. Doe not only about Mr. Doe’s physical and psychological recovery, but also about the effects of his injury on their marriage and home life generally. Dr. Bowman’s report states the following:
 
 
(Ex. 27, Life Care Plan, 24-25).
	The effect of Mr. Doe’s injuries on his marriage has been noticed by their children as well. Plaintiffs’ son, Yichen Doe, discussed his observations as follows:
The impact on my parents' relationship has been significant.  After my father's incident, our family's financial support was cut off, and my mother had to work, even having to go to another state for work. This has lead to even less communication between them. Also, as I mentioned before, my father is a very strong-willed person, but he everything to himself, not willing to communicate with the family. Even my mother, she doesn't want to engage in communication either.  Now the distance between them has grown further, and they are less likely to care for each other.  As a result, their relationship has become more distant and cold.
(Ex. 17, Yichen Doe Dep. 29-30).
	When asked directly about her marriage with Mr. Doe after the crash, Mrs. Doe described the significant change in Mr. Doe’s ability to contribute to the marriage on an emotional level:
 He has – his headache and his short temper really affected our relationship. Like after a long day of work and I went to ask about him, to care about him, he either did not want to talk or he became very impatient. It is not like in the past. He doesn’t want to talk. We used to always have a discussion or talk before sleep, talk about what happened for the day or things like that. Now, even if I ask him, he doesn’t want to say. Or he throw a temper at me. He does not communicate with me. Our relationship is not as good as before. And even our sex life is affected when it almost came down to zero.
(Ex. 4, Doe Dep. 25-26).
XI.	MR. DOE’s VERDICT FORM
Past Medical Bills	$357,859.84
Past Pain and Suffering	$1,000,000.00
Past Disability / Loss of a Normal Life 	$1,000,000.00
Past Emotional Distress	$1,000,000.00
Disfigurement	$200,000.00?
Future Medical Bills	$5,000,000.00 +
Lost Earnings	$650,000.00 +
Future Pain and Suffering	$1,000,000.00
Future Disability / Loss of a Normal Life	$4,000,000.00
Future Emotional Distress	$4,000,000.00
Total Verdict Potential for Mr. Doe	$17,563,364.80+

XII.	MRS. DOE’S VERDICT FORM
Past and Future Reasonable value of services	$2,500,000.00
Past and Future loss of society, companionship, and sexual relationship 	$2,500,000.00
Total Verdict Potential for Mrs. Doe	$5,000,000.00+

XIII.	CONCLUSION
The clear and conscious disregard for the Plaintiff’s safety, along with the safety of all other drivers passing through the construction zone under the control of the Defendants demonstrates their clear liability for this crash. Plaintiff’s significant past and future medical bills, combined with the ongoing pain and suffering, and the substantial effect on his family demonstrate significant risk for the defendants of an award from a jury exceeding the policy limits in this matter.
Respectfully submitted, 

/s/ Michael R. Grieco
Michael R. Grieco
Nicholas P. Wainwright
STINAR GOULD GRIECO & HENSLEY, PLLC
101 N. Wacker Drive, Suite 100 
Chicago, IL 60606
Mike@SGGHLaw.com
Nicholas@SGGHLaw.com
Attorneys for John Doe and Jennifer Doe
 
INDEX
•	Exhibit 1: Plaintiffs’ Complaint at Law
o	P.1
•	Exhibit 2: Michael Drum Deposition Transcript
o	P. 2, 7, 9-11, 16-17
•	Exhibit 3: John Doe Deposition Transcript
o	P. 3
•	Exhibit 4: Jennifer Doe Deposition Transcript
o	P. 3, 18. 26, 34, 36
•	Exhibit 5: Yixuan Doe Deposition Transcript
o	P. 4, 12
•	Exhibit 6: Joe Green Deposition Transcript
o	P. 4, 6, 16
•	Exhibit 7: Aaron Neuf Deposition Transcript
o	P. 4, 5, 15
•	Exhibit 8: Kevin Roeche Deposition Transcript
o	P. 4, 15
•	Exhibit 9: Tanner Thebeau Deposition Transcript
o	P. 4, 15
•	Exhibit 10: Michael Lant Deposition Transcript
o	P. 5, 15
•	Exhibit 11: Zachary Maggio Deposition Transcript
o	P. 5, 14-15
•	Exhibit 12A: Bradley Certificate of Liability Insurance
o	P. 7
•	Exhibit 12B: Brennan Certificate of Liability Insurance
o	P. 7
•	Exhibit 13: Illinois Department of Transportation Incident Report
o	P. 7
•	Exhibit 14: Brent Winters Deposition Transcript
o	P. 10, 16
•	Exhibit 15: Earning Evaluation from Vocational Diagnostics
o	P. 11, 27-28, 34
•	Exhibit 16: Second Crash Report   
o	P. 11, 17
•	Exhibit 17: Yichen Doe Deposition Transcript
o	12, 26, 39-30, 36
•	Exhibit 18: Notice to Bidders, Specifications and Proposal
o	P. 13
•	Exhibit 19: Proposed Highway Plans
o	P. 13
•	Exhibit 20: Subcontract
o	P. 13-14
•	Exhibit 21: Steve Williams Deposition Transcript
o	P. 15
•	Exhibit 22: Brennan Corporation Safety Plan
o	P. 15
•	Exhibit 23: Special Agent Charis Hobbs Deposition Transcript
o	P. 16
•	Exhibit 24: Trooper Jacob Dorris Deposition Transcript
o	P. 16
•	Exhibit 25: Billing Summary
o	P. 26
•	Exhibit 26: Dr. Stepan Kasimian Deposition Transcript
o	P. 30
•	Exhibit 27: Life Care Plan
o	P. 33, 35
•	Exhibit 28: Folder Containing Medical Records and Bills
o	P. 30
•	Exhibit 29: Folder Containing Photographs and Videos of Scene
