DATE
Via Fax
Direct Auto Insurance
NAME
F: FAX NO
			Our Client: 		John Doe
			Date of Incident:	August 21, 2023
			Your Insured:		Paul Peter
Policy Number:	PAIL001103242
NAME, 

As you are aware, our office represents John Doe, in his claim for damages sustained as a result of your insured, Paul Peter, who is liable for negligently causing Mr. Doe’s bicycle to crash into his vehicle on August 21, 2023.	

On August 21, 2023, Mr. Doe was wearing a helmet and riding his bicycle south on Milwaukee Avenue on his way to work. Mr. Peter was driving northbound on Milwaukee Avenue and attempted to turn west onto Concord Plaza. Mr. Peter negligently failed to check the southbound bike lane before making this turn, causing Mr. Doe to slam on the brakes of his bicycle. Mr. Doe did not have time to come to a full stop and crashed into the rear of Mr. Peter’s vehicle. The collision caused John to be launched forward off of his bike, striking his face on the pavement. Mr. Doe laid on the ground until EMS arrived and was placed in a C-collar (Ex. A – Traffic Crash Report).

   


Liability here is clear, Mr. Doe was obeying traffic laws and operating his bicycle with care. Mr. Peter failed to check for oncoming bikes before making the turn, leaving Mr. Doe’s safety in jeopardy and resulting in a severe laceration under Mr. Doe’s right eye and bruising throughout his entire body. 

Following the collision, Mr. Doe was transported to Stroger Hospital where he was treated for three lacerations on the right side of his face. These lacerations required a total of 14 sutures. Mr. Doe experienced decreased vision out of his right eye. John was administered acetaminophen, fentanyl, and epinephrine-lidocaine. X-Rays of John’s Chest and Pelvis were performed along with a CT scan of his face. At the time of discharge, John was diagnosed with trauma, and instructed to follow up with his primary care physician and to return in 7-10 days for the removal of his stitches. (Ex. B – Stroger MR, Ex. C – Stroger Medical Bills)

On August 30, 2023, Mr. Doe visited Northwestern Medicine to have the sutures removed from all three of his facial lacerations. At this point Mr. Doe was advised to follow-up with an ophthalmologist and a dermatologist. Additionally, Mr. Doe was advised to use a silicone-based scar reduction agent and referred to a plastic surgeon for scar revision. (Ex. D – Northwestern Medicine Medical Records, Ex. E – Northwestern Medicine Medical Bills)

On September 7, 2023, Mr. Doe visited Pinnacle dermatology for a wound check in relation to the three lacerations on his face. Mr. Doe was advised to silicone-based treatment, which he would have to apply twice daily for six months. Mr. Doe was also advised to see wither a plastic surgeon or an oculist surgeon for scar revision. (Ex. F – Dermatology Physicians Group (Pinnacle) Medical Records, Ex. G – Dermatology Physicians Group Bills)

Following the advice of his dermatologist, on September 20, 2023, Mr. Doe received a consultation from Chicago Cosmetic Surgery and Dermatology. Mr. Doe received a intralesional injection and was advised of his options in regards to scar revision. (Ex. E – Chicago Cosmetic Surgery and Dermatology – Medical and Billing Records)




John Doe’s Lost Wages
At the time of the accident, John was working at Woodhouse Tinucci Architects, earning $85,000 annually. As a result of your client’s negligence, John missed a full day of work, along with having to leave early for three follow-up doctor’s appointments. John’s total lost wages as a result of the time he had to take off work equaled: $736.00.

John Doe’s Past Medical Bills
John’s past medical bills related to this occurrence to date exceed $$$$$$:  

SCREENSHOT SPECIAL SUMMARY HERE

A full and accurate special summary is contained in (Ex. F - Special Summary)

Demand
John Doe demands the Defendant’s $50,000.00.  Liability is perfectly clear.  John’s pain, suffering, and emotional damages are evident. Any jury will embrace John. 

Sincerely, 
 /s/ Michael R. Grieco       
Michael R. Grieco
Stinar Gould Grieco & Hensley
101 N. Wacker Drive, Suite 100
Chicago, IL 60606
P: (312) 748-7338
Mike@sgghlaw.com
